---
title: "Digi Storage"
description: "Rclone docs for Digi Storage"
---

# {{< icon "fa fa-cloud" >}} Digi Storage

Paths are specified as `remote:path`

Paths may be as deep as required, e.g. `remote:directory/subdirectory`.

## Configuration

The initial setup for Digi Storage involves creating an application password for
rclone. You can do that by opening the Digi Storage
[web application](https://storage.rcs-rds.ro/app/admin/preferences/password),
giving the password a nice name like `rclone` and clicking on generate.

Here is an example of how to make a remote called `ds`.  First run:

     rclone config

This will guide you through an interactive setup process:

```
No remotes found, make a new one?
n) New remote
s) Set configuration password
q) Quit config
n/s/q> n
name> ds 
Type of storage to configure.
Enter a string value. Press Enter for the default ("").
Choose a number from below, or type in your own value
[snip]
XX / Digi Storage
   \ "digistorage"
[snip]
Storage> digistorage
** See help for digistorage backend at: https://rclone.org/digistorage/ **

Your Digi Storage user name
Enter a string value. Press Enter for the default ("").
user> USER@NAME
Your Digi Storage password for rclone (generate one at https://storage.rcs-rds.ro/app/admin/preferences/password).
y) Yes type in my own password
g) Generate random password
y/g> y
Enter the password:
password:
Confirm the password:
password:
Edit advanced config? (y/n)
y) Yes
n) No
y/n> n
Remote config
--------------------
[ds]
type = digistorage
user = USER@NAME
password = *** ENCRYPTED ***
--------------------
y) Yes this is OK
e) Edit this remote
d) Delete this remote
y/e/d> y
```

You can choose to edit advanced config in order to choose an alternative
mount instead of your primary storage.

Once configured you can then use `rclone` like this,

List directories in top level of your Digi Storage

    rclone lsd ds:

List all the files in your Digi Storage

    rclone ls ds:

To copy a local directory to an Digi Storage directory called backup

    rclone copy /home/source ds:backup

### Restricted filename characters

In addition to the [default restricted characters set](/overview/#restricted-characters)
the following characters are also replaced:

| Character | Value | Replacement |
| --------- |:-----:|:-----------:|
| \         | 0x5C  | ＼           |

Invalid UTF-8 bytes will also be [replaced](/overview/#invalid-utf8),
as they can't be used in XML strings.

{{< rem autogenerated options start" - DO NOT EDIT - instead edit fs.RegInfo in backend/digistorage/digistorage.go then run make backenddocs" >}}
### Standard options

Here are the standard options specific to digistorage (Digi Storage).

#### --digistorage-user

Your Digi Storage user name.

Properties:

- Config:      user
- Env Var:     RCLONE_DIGISTORAGE_USER
- Type:        string
- Required:    true

#### --digistorage-password

Your Digi Storage password for rclone (generate one at https://storage.rcs-rds.ro/app/admin/preferences/password).

**NB** Input to this must be obscured - see [rclone obscure](/commands/rclone_obscure/).

Properties:

- Config:      password
- Env Var:     RCLONE_DIGISTORAGE_PASSWORD
- Type:        string
- Required:    true

### Advanced options

Here are the advanced options specific to digistorage (Digi Storage).

#### --digistorage-mountid

Mount ID of the mount to use.

If omitted, the primary mount is used.

Properties:

- Config:      mountid
- Env Var:     RCLONE_DIGISTORAGE_MOUNTID
- Type:        string
- Required:    false

#### --digistorage-setmtime

Does the backend support setting modification time.

Set this to false if you use a mount ID that points to a Dropbox or Amazon Drive backend.

Properties:

- Config:      setmtime
- Env Var:     RCLONE_DIGISTORAGE_SETMTIME
- Type:        bool
- Default:     true

#### --digistorage-encoding

The encoding for the backend.

See the [encoding section in the overview](/overview/#encoding) for more info.

Properties:

- Config:      encoding
- Env Var:     RCLONE_DIGISTORAGE_ENCODING
- Type:        MultiEncoder
- Default:     Slash,BackSlash,Del,Ctl,InvalidUtf8,Dot

{{< rem autogenerated options stop >}}

## Limitations

Note that Digi Storage is case insensitive so you can't have a file called
"Hello.doc" and one called "hello.doc".
