---
title: "Discord"
description: "Rclone docs for Discord backend"
---

# {{< icon "fa fa-discord" >}} Discord

The Discord backend utilizes Discord channels in a Discord server to store data.

Refer to [their official documentation](https://discord.com/developers/docs/intro) for the API this backend uses. It doesn't use any undocumented APIs.

Paths are specified as `remote:bucket` (or `remote:` for the `lsd`
command.)  You may put subdirectories in too, e.g. `remote:item/path/to/dir`.

Once you have made a remote, you can use it like this:

List the contents of a item

    rclone ls remote:item

Sync `/home/local/directory` to the remote item, deleting any excess
files in the item.

    rclone sync -i /home/local/directory remote:item

## Notes
You need at least 2 Text Channels (not recommended to use Voice Chat and Threads) in a server. One for uploading metadata (called "journal") and for data ("chunks").

You have to lock mortals out of these channels, by not inviting them or by permission.

### Making a Bot
You have to make a bot and let it join to your server. We'll guide you here.

First, [create your application here.](https://discord.com/developers/applications) Name can be of your choice.
Next, click Ξ menu of top left corner and click "Bot". Then start "Add Bot" procedure.

After adding a Bot, "Reset Token" once and copy the new token. Make sure to save it, as you'll have to pass it to rclone to create a remote.

A Bot for Discord backend does not require any Privilged Intents. Don't open tickets for approval.

Lastly, let your Bot join your server. Click Ξ menu again and choose "OAuth2", then copy Client ID. Replace `CLIENDIDHERE` part with it in the following URL, and open it. Follow authorization flow on browser. You have to give all permission to make this backend fully functional.

```
https://discord.com/oauth2/authorize?client_id=CLIENDIDHERE&permissions=108544&response_type=code&scope=bot
```

*Details for `permissions` integer 108544:* the number `108544` corresponds to Send/Manage Messages, Attach Files and, Read Message History permissions. These permissions do not allow Bots to read anyone's messages but the Bot itself.

### Getting channel IDs
You can get channel IDs without needs for Bots or unofficial clients. The following instructions are for PC clients (Web, Windows, Mac).

Open settings (gear icon) and click "Advanced" on the left, then enable "Developer Mode" (click switch on the right and make it green).
After closing settings, you'll see "Copy ID" in the left-click menu for each channels.
Copied IDs from the option is what we are looking for.

## Configuration

Here is an example of making a discord configuration.

First run

    rclone config

This will guide you through an interactive setup process.

```
No remotes found, make a new one?
n) New remote
s) Set configuration password
q) Quit config
n/s/q> n
name> remote
Option Storage.
Type of storage to configure.
Choose a number from below, or type in your own value.
XX / Discord
   \ (discord)
Storage> discord

Option auth_token.
Authentication token for your Discord bot
Enter a value.
auth_token> AUTHTOKEN

Option chunks_channel.
Internal ID of the channels to upload attached files. Split by space to spread to multiple channels.
Enter a value.
chunks_channel> 1234

Option journal_channel.
Internal ID of the channels to upload metadata. It is preferred to have many channel as possible to list up files faster.
Enter a value.
journal_channel> 5678

Edit advanced config?
y) Yes
n) No (default)
y/n> n

Configuration complete.
Options:
- type: discord
- auth_token: AUTHTOKEN
- chunks_channel: 1234
- journal_channel: 5678
Keep this "remote" remote?
y) Yes this is OK (default)
e) Edit this remote
d) Delete this remote
y/e/d> y
```

{{< rem autogenerated options start" - DO NOT EDIT - instead edit fs.RegInfo in backend/discord/discord.go then run make backenddocs" >}}
### Standard options

Here are the Standard options specific to discord (Discord).

#### --discord-auth-token

Authentication token for your Discord bot. Follow instructions at https://rclone.org/discord/ for this field.

Properties:

- Config:      auth_token
- Env Var:     RCLONE_DISCORD_AUTH_TOKEN
- Type:        string
- Required:    true

#### --discord-chunks-channel

Internal ID of the channels to upload attached files. Split by space to spread to multiple channels.

Properties:

- Config:      chunks_channel
- Env Var:     RCLONE_DISCORD_CHUNKS_CHANNEL
- Type:        string
- Required:    true

#### --discord-journal-channel

Internal ID of the channels to upload metadata. It is preferred to have many channel as possible to list up files faster.

Properties:

- Config:      journal_channel
- Env Var:     RCLONE_DISCORD_JOURNAL_CHANNEL
- Type:        string
- Required:    true

### Advanced options

Here are the Advanced options specific to discord (Discord).

#### --discord-list-timeout

Timeout for listing up metadata messages. 0 for no timeout.

Properties:

- Config:      list_timeout
- Env Var:     RCLONE_DISCORD_LIST_TIMEOUT
- Type:        string
- Required:    false

#### --discord-quick-delete

Enabling this will make it not to delete messages with attached files. Metadata message is always deleted.

Properties:

- Config:      quick_delete
- Env Var:     RCLONE_DISCORD_QUICK_DELETE
- Type:        bool
- Default:     false

#### --discord-chunk-message

Message for posting chunk message.

Properties:

- Config:      chunk_message
- Env Var:     RCLONE_DISCORD_CHUNK_MESSAGE
- Type:        string
- Default:     "Hello! This is a chunk message posted by rclone."

#### --discord-journal-message

Message for posting chunk message.

Properties:

- Config:      journal_message
- Env Var:     RCLONE_DISCORD_JOURNAL_MESSAGE
- Type:        string
- Default:     "Hello! This is a metadata message posted by rclone."

#### --discord-encoding

The encoding for the backend.

See the [encoding section in the overview](/overview/#encoding) for more info.

Properties:

- Config:      encoding
- Env Var:     RCLONE_DISCORD_ENCODING
- Type:        MultiEncoder
- Default:     Slash,Del,Ctl,InvalidUtf8,Dot

{{< rem autogenerated options stop >}}
