---
title: "QingStor"
description: "Rclone docs for QingStor Object Storage"
versionIntroduced: "v1.38"
---

# {{< icon "fas fa-hdd" >}} QingStor

Paths are specified as `remote:bucket` (or `remote:` for the `lsd`
command.)  You may put subdirectories in too, e.g. `remote:bucket/path/to/dir`.

## Configuration

Here is an example of making an QingStor configuration.  First run

    rclone config

This will guide you through an interactive setup process.

```
No remotes found, make a new one?
n) New remote
r) Rename remote
c) Copy remote
s) Set configuration password
q) Quit config
n/r/c/s/q> n
name> remote
Type of storage to configure.
Choose a number from below, or type in your own value
[snip]
XX / QingStor Object Storage
   \ "qingstor"
[snip]
Storage> qingstor
Get QingStor credentials from runtime. Only applies if access_key_id and secret_access_key is blank.
Choose a number from below, or type in your own value
 1 / Enter QingStor credentials in the next step
   \ "false"
 2 / Get QingStor credentials from the environment (env vars or IAM)
   \ "true"
env_auth> 1
QingStor Access Key ID - leave blank for anonymous access or runtime credentials.
access_key_id> access_key
QingStor Secret Access Key (password) - leave blank for anonymous access or runtime credentials.
secret_access_key> secret_key
Enter an endpoint URL to connection QingStor API.
Leave blank will use the default value "https://qingstor.com:443"
endpoint>
Zone connect to. Default is "pek3a".
Choose a number from below, or type in your own value
   / The Beijing (China) Three Zone
 1 | Needs location constraint pek3a.
   \ "pek3a"
   / The Shanghai (China) First Zone
 2 | Needs location constraint sh1a.
   \ "sh1a"
zone> 1
Number of connection retry.
Leave blank will use the default value "3".
connection_retries>
Remote config
Configuration complete.
Options:
- type: qingstor
- env_auth: false
- access_key_id: access_key
- secret_access_key: secret_key
- endpoint:
- zone: pek3a
- connection_retries:
Keep this "remote" remote?
y) Yes this is OK
e) Edit this remote
d) Delete this remote
y/e/d> y
```

This remote is called `remote` and can now be used like this

See all buckets

    rclone lsd remote:

Make a new bucket

    rclone mkdir remote:bucket

List the contents of a bucket

    rclone ls remote:bucket

Sync `/home/local/directory` to the remote bucket, deleting any excess
files in the bucket.

    rclone sync --interactive /home/local/directory remote:bucket

### --fast-list

This remote supports `--fast-list` which allows you to use fewer
transactions in exchange for more memory. See the [rclone
docs](/docs/#fast-list) for more details.

### Multipart uploads

rclone supports multipart uploads with QingStor which means that it can
upload files bigger than 5 GiB. Note that files uploaded with multipart
upload don't have an MD5SUM.

Note that incomplete multipart uploads older than 24 hours can be
removed with `rclone cleanup remote:bucket` just for one bucket
`rclone cleanup remote:` for all buckets. QingStor does not ever
remove incomplete multipart uploads so it may be necessary to run this
from time to time.

### Buckets and Zone

With QingStor you can list buckets (`rclone lsd`) using any zone,
but you can only access the content of a bucket from the zone it was
created in.  If you attempt to access a bucket from the wrong zone,
you will get an error, `incorrect zone, the bucket is not in 'XXX'
zone`.

### Authentication

There are two ways to supply `rclone` with a set of QingStor
credentials. In order of precedence:

 - Directly in the rclone configuration file (as configured by `rclone config`)
   - set `access_key_id` and `secret_access_key`
 - Runtime configuration:
   - set `env_auth` to `true` in the config file
   - Exporting the following environment variables before running `rclone`
     - Access Key ID: `QS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` or `QS_ACCESS_KEY`
     - Secret Access Key: `QS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` or `QS_SECRET_KEY`

### Restricted filename characters

The control characters 0x00-0x1F and / are replaced as in the [default
restricted characters set](/overview/#restricted-characters).  Note
that 0x7F is not replaced.

Invalid UTF-8 bytes will also be [replaced](/overview/#invalid-utf8),
as they can't be used in JSON strings.

{{< rem autogenerated options start" - DO NOT EDIT - instead edit fs.RegInfo in backend/qingstor/qingstor.go then run make backenddocs" >}}
### Standard options

Here are the Standard options specific to qingstor (QingCloud Object Storage).

#### --qingstor-env-auth

Get QingStor credentials from runtime.

Only applies if access_key_id and secret_access_key is blank.

Properties:

- Config:      env_auth
- Env Var:     RCLONE_QINGSTOR_ENV_AUTH
- Type:        bool
- Default:     false
- Examples:
    - "false"
        - Enter QingStor credentials in the next step.
    - "true"
        - Get QingStor credentials from the environment (env vars or IAM).

#### --qingstor-access-key-id

QingStor Access Key ID.

Leave blank for anonymous access or runtime credentials.

Properties:

- Config:      access_key_id
- Env Var:     RCLONE_QINGSTOR_ACCESS_KEY_ID
- Type:        string
- Required:    false

#### --qingstor-secret-access-key

QingStor Secret Access Key (password).

Leave blank for anonymous access or runtime credentials.

Properties:

- Config:      secret_access_key
- Env Var:     RCLONE_QINGSTOR_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
- Type:        string
- Required:    false

#### --qingstor-endpoint

Enter an endpoint URL to connection QingStor API.

Leave blank will use the default value "https://qingstor.com:443".

Properties:

- Config:      endpoint
- Env Var:     RCLONE_QINGSTOR_ENDPOINT
- Type:        string
- Required:    false

#### --qingstor-zone

Zone to connect to.

Default is "pek3a".

Properties:

- Config:      zone
- Env Var:     RCLONE_QINGSTOR_ZONE
- Type:        string
- Required:    false
- Examples:
    - "pek3a"
        - The Beijing (China) Three Zone.
        - Needs location constraint pek3a.
    - "sh1a"
        - The Shanghai (China) First Zone.
        - Needs location constraint sh1a.
    - "gd2a"
        - The Guangdong (China) Second Zone.
        - Needs location constraint gd2a.

### Advanced options

Here are the Advanced options specific to qingstor (QingCloud Object Storage).

#### --qingstor-connection-retries

Number of connection retries.

Properties:

- Config:      connection_retries
- Env Var:     RCLONE_QINGSTOR_CONNECTION_RETRIES
- Type:        int
- Default:     3

#### --qingstor-upload-cutoff

Cutoff for switching to chunked upload.

Any files larger than this will be uploaded in chunks of chunk_size.
The minimum is 0 and the maximum is 5 GiB.

Properties:

- Config:      upload_cutoff
- Env Var:     RCLONE_QINGSTOR_UPLOAD_CUTOFF
- Type:        SizeSuffix
- Default:     200Mi

#### --qingstor-chunk-size

Chunk size to use for uploading.

When uploading files larger than upload_cutoff they will be uploaded
as multipart uploads using this chunk size.

Note that "--qingstor-upload-concurrency" chunks of this size are buffered
in memory per transfer.

If you are transferring large files over high-speed links and you have
enough memory, then increasing this will speed up the transfers.

Properties:

- Config:      chunk_size
- Env Var:     RCLONE_QINGSTOR_CHUNK_SIZE
- Type:        SizeSuffix
- Default:     4Mi

#### --qingstor-upload-concurrency

Concurrency for multipart uploads.

This is the number of chunks of the same file that are uploaded
concurrently.

NB if you set this to > 1 then the checksums of multipart uploads
become corrupted (the uploads themselves are not corrupted though).

If you are uploading small numbers of large files over high-speed links
and these uploads do not fully utilize your bandwidth, then increasing
this may help to speed up the transfers.

Properties:

- Config:      upload_concurrency
- Env Var:     RCLONE_QINGSTOR_UPLOAD_CONCURRENCY
- Type:        int
- Default:     1

#### --qingstor-encoding

The encoding for the backend.

See the [encoding section in the overview](/overview/#encoding) for more info.

Properties:

- Config:      encoding
- Env Var:     RCLONE_QINGSTOR_ENCODING
- Type:        Encoding
- Default:     Slash,Ctl,InvalidUtf8

#### --qingstor-description

Description of the remote.

Properties:

- Config:      description
- Env Var:     RCLONE_QINGSTOR_DESCRIPTION
- Type:        string
- Required:    false

{{< rem autogenerated options stop >}}

## Limitations

`rclone about` is not supported by the qingstor backend. Backends without
this capability cannot determine free space for an rclone mount or
use policy `mfs` (most free space) as a member of an rclone union
remote.

See [List of backends that do not support rclone about](https://rclone.org/overview/#optional-features) and [rclone about](https://rclone.org/commands/rclone_about/)

