---
title: "WebDAV"
description: "Rclone docs for WebDAV"
versionIntroduced: "v1.39"
---

# {{< icon "fa fa-globe" >}} WebDAV

Paths are specified as `remote:path`

Paths may be as deep as required, e.g. `remote:directory/subdirectory`.

## Configuration

To configure the WebDAV remote you will need to have a URL for it, and
a username and password.  If you know what kind of system you are
connecting to then rclone can enable extra features.

Here is an example of how to make a remote called `remote`.  First run:

     rclone config

This will guide you through an interactive setup process:

```
No remotes found, make a new one?
n) New remote
s) Set configuration password
q) Quit config
n/s/q> n
name> remote
Type of storage to configure.
Choose a number from below, or type in your own value
[snip]
XX / WebDAV
   \ "webdav"
[snip]
Storage> webdav
URL of http host to connect to
Choose a number from below, or type in your own value
 1 / Connect to example.com
   \ "https://example.com"
url> https://example.com/remote.php/webdav/
Name of the WebDAV site/service/software you are using
Choose a number from below, or type in your own value
 1 / Fastmail Files
   \ (fastmail)
 2 / Nextcloud
   \ (nextcloud)
 3 / Owncloud
   \ (owncloud)
 4 / Sharepoint Online, authenticated by Microsoft account
   \ (sharepoint)
 5 / Sharepoint with NTLM authentication, usually self-hosted or on-premises
   \ (sharepoint-ntlm)
 6 / rclone WebDAV server to serve a remote over HTTP via the WebDAV protocol
   \ (rclone)
 7 / Other site/service or software
   \ (other)
vendor> 2
User name
user> user
Password.
y) Yes type in my own password
g) Generate random password
n) No leave this optional password blank
y/g/n> y
Enter the password:
password:
Confirm the password:
password:
Bearer token instead of user/pass (e.g. a Macaroon)
bearer_token>
Remote config
Configuration complete.
Options:
- type: webdav
- url: https://example.com/remote.php/webdav/
- vendor: nextcloud
- user: user
- pass: *** ENCRYPTED ***
- bearer_token:
Keep this "remote" remote?
y) Yes this is OK
e) Edit this remote
d) Delete this remote
y/e/d> y
```

Once configured you can then use `rclone` like this,

List directories in top level of your WebDAV

    rclone lsd remote:

List all the files in your WebDAV

    rclone ls remote:

To copy a local directory to an WebDAV directory called backup

    rclone copy /home/source remote:backup

### Modification times and hashes

Plain WebDAV does not support modified times.  However when used with
Fastmail Files, Owncloud or Nextcloud rclone will support modified times.

Likewise plain WebDAV does not support hashes, however when used with
Fastmail Files, Owncloud or Nextcloud rclone will support SHA1 and MD5 hashes.
Depending on the exact version of Owncloud or Nextcloud hashes may
appear on all objects, or only on objects which had a hash uploaded
with them.

{{< rem autogenerated options start" - DO NOT EDIT - instead edit fs.RegInfo in backend/webdav/webdav.go then run make backenddocs" >}}
### Standard options

Here are the Standard options specific to webdav (WebDAV).

#### --webdav-url

URL of http host to connect to.

E.g. https://example.com.

Properties:

- Config:      url
- Env Var:     RCLONE_WEBDAV_URL
- Type:        string
- Required:    true

#### --webdav-vendor

Name of the WebDAV site/service/software you are using.

Properties:

- Config:      vendor
- Env Var:     RCLONE_WEBDAV_VENDOR
- Type:        string
- Required:    false
- Examples:
    - "fastmail"
        - Fastmail Files
    - "nextcloud"
        - Nextcloud
    - "owncloud"
        - Owncloud
    - "sharepoint"
        - Sharepoint Online, authenticated by Microsoft account
    - "sharepoint-ntlm"
        - Sharepoint with NTLM authentication, usually self-hosted or on-premises
    - "rclone"
        - rclone WebDAV server to serve a remote over HTTP via the WebDAV protocol
    - "other"
        - Other site/service or software

#### --webdav-user

User name.

In case NTLM authentication is used, the username should be in the format 'Domain\User'.

Properties:

- Config:      user
- Env Var:     RCLONE_WEBDAV_USER
- Type:        string
- Required:    false

#### --webdav-pass

Password.

**NB** Input to this must be obscured - see [rclone obscure](/commands/rclone_obscure/).

Properties:

- Config:      pass
- Env Var:     RCLONE_WEBDAV_PASS
- Type:        string
- Required:    false

#### --webdav-bearer-token

Bearer token instead of user/pass (e.g. a Macaroon).

Properties:

- Config:      bearer_token
- Env Var:     RCLONE_WEBDAV_BEARER_TOKEN
- Type:        string
- Required:    false

### Advanced options

Here are the Advanced options specific to webdav (WebDAV).

#### --webdav-bearer-token-command

Command to run to get a bearer token.

Properties:

- Config:      bearer_token_command
- Env Var:     RCLONE_WEBDAV_BEARER_TOKEN_COMMAND
- Type:        string
- Required:    false

#### --webdav-encoding

The encoding for the backend.

See the [encoding section in the overview](/overview/#encoding) for more info.

Default encoding is Slash,LtGt,DoubleQuote,Colon,Question,Asterisk,Pipe,Hash,Percent,BackSlash,Del,Ctl,LeftSpace,LeftTilde,RightSpace,RightPeriod,InvalidUtf8 for sharepoint-ntlm or identity otherwise.

Properties:

- Config:      encoding
- Env Var:     RCLONE_WEBDAV_ENCODING
- Type:        string
- Required:    false

#### --webdav-headers

Set HTTP headers for all transactions.

Use this to set additional HTTP headers for all transactions

The input format is comma separated list of key,value pairs.  Standard
[CSV encoding](https://godoc.org/encoding/csv) may be used.

For example, to set a Cookie use 'Cookie,name=value', or '"Cookie","name=value"'.

You can set multiple headers, e.g. '"Cookie","name=value","Authorization","xxx"'.


Properties:

- Config:      headers
- Env Var:     RCLONE_WEBDAV_HEADERS
- Type:        CommaSepList
- Default:     

#### --webdav-pacer-min-sleep

Minimum time to sleep between API calls.

Properties:

- Config:      pacer_min_sleep
- Env Var:     RCLONE_WEBDAV_PACER_MIN_SLEEP
- Type:        Duration
- Default:     10ms

#### --webdav-nextcloud-chunk-size

Nextcloud upload chunk size.

We recommend configuring your NextCloud instance to increase the max chunk size to 1 GB for better upload performances.
See https://docs.nextcloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration_files/big_file_upload_configuration.html#adjust-chunk-size-on-nextcloud-side

Set to 0 to disable chunked uploading.


Properties:

- Config:      nextcloud_chunk_size
- Env Var:     RCLONE_WEBDAV_NEXTCLOUD_CHUNK_SIZE
- Type:        SizeSuffix
- Default:     10Mi

#### --webdav-owncloud-exclude-shares

Exclude ownCloud shares

Properties:

- Config:      owncloud_exclude_shares
- Env Var:     RCLONE_WEBDAV_OWNCLOUD_EXCLUDE_SHARES
- Type:        bool
- Default:     false

#### --webdav-owncloud-exclude-mounts

Exclude ownCloud mounted storages

Properties:

- Config:      owncloud_exclude_mounts
- Env Var:     RCLONE_WEBDAV_OWNCLOUD_EXCLUDE_MOUNTS
- Type:        bool
- Default:     false

#### --webdav-unix-socket

Path to a unix domain socket to dial to, instead of opening a TCP connection directly

Properties:

- Config:      unix_socket
- Env Var:     RCLONE_WEBDAV_UNIX_SOCKET
- Type:        string
- Required:    false

#### --webdav-description

Description of the remote.

Properties:

- Config:      description
- Env Var:     RCLONE_WEBDAV_DESCRIPTION
- Type:        string
- Required:    false

{{< rem autogenerated options stop >}}

## Provider notes

See below for notes on specific providers.

### Fastmail Files

Use `https://webdav.fastmail.com/` or a subdirectory as the URL,
and your Fastmail email `username@domain.tld` as the username.
Follow [this documentation](https://www.fastmail.help/hc/en-us/articles/360058752854-App-passwords)
to create an app password with access to `Files (WebDAV)` and use
this as the password.

Fastmail supports modified times using the `X-OC-Mtime` header.

### Owncloud

Click on the settings cog in the bottom right of the page and this
will show the WebDAV URL that rclone needs in the config step.  It
will look something like `https://example.com/remote.php/webdav/`.

Owncloud supports modified times using the `X-OC-Mtime` header.

### Nextcloud

This is configured in an identical way to Owncloud.  Note that
Nextcloud initially did not support streaming of files (`rcat`) whereas
Owncloud did, but [this](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloud-snap/issues/365) seems to be fixed as of 2020-11-27 (tested with rclone v1.53.1 and Nextcloud Server v19).

### Sharepoint Online

Rclone can be used with Sharepoint provided by OneDrive for Business
or Office365 Education Accounts.
This feature is only needed for a few of these Accounts,
mostly Office365 Education ones. These accounts are sometimes not
verified by the domain owner [github#1975](https://github.com/rclone/rclone/issues/1975)

This means that these accounts can't be added using the official
API (other Accounts should work with the "onedrive" option). However,
it is possible to access them using webdav.

To use a sharepoint remote with rclone, add it like this:
First, you need to get your remote's URL:

- Go [here](https://onedrive.live.com/about/en-us/signin/)
  to open your OneDrive or to sign in
- Now take a look at your address bar, the URL should look like this:
  `https://[YOUR-DOMAIN]-my.sharepoint.com/personal/[YOUR-EMAIL]/_layouts/15/onedrive.aspx`

You'll only need this URL up to the email address. After that, you'll
most likely want to add "/Documents". That subdirectory contains
the actual data stored on your OneDrive.

Add the remote to rclone like this:
Configure the `url` as `https://[YOUR-DOMAIN]-my.sharepoint.com/personal/[YOUR-EMAIL]/Documents`
and use your normal account email and password for `user` and `pass`.
If you have 2FA enabled, you have to generate an app password.
Set the `vendor` to `sharepoint`.

Your config file should look like this:

```
[sharepoint]
type = webdav
url = https://[YOUR-DOMAIN]-my.sharepoint.com/personal/[YOUR-EMAIL]/Documents
vendor = sharepoint
user = YourEmailAddress
pass = encryptedpassword
```

### Sharepoint with NTLM Authentication

Use this option in case your (hosted) Sharepoint is not tied to OneDrive accounts and uses NTLM authentication.

To get the `url` configuration, similarly to the above, first navigate to the desired directory in your browser to get the URL,
then strip everything after the name of the opened directory.

Example:
If the URL is:
https://example.sharepoint.com/sites/12345/Documents/Forms/AllItems.aspx

The configuration to use would be:
https://example.sharepoint.com/sites/12345/Documents

Set the `vendor` to `sharepoint-ntlm`.

NTLM uses domain and user name combination for authentication,
set `user` to `DOMAIN\username`.

Your config file should look like this:

```
[sharepoint]
type = webdav
url = https://[YOUR-DOMAIN]/some-path-to/Documents
vendor = sharepoint-ntlm
user = DOMAIN\user
pass = encryptedpassword
```

#### Required Flags for SharePoint

As SharePoint does some special things with uploaded documents, you won't be able to use the documents size or the documents hash to compare if a file has been changed since the upload / which file is newer.

For Rclone calls copying files (especially Office files such as .docx, .xlsx, etc.) from/to SharePoint (like copy, sync, etc.), you should append these flags to ensure Rclone uses the "Last Modified" datetime property to compare your documents:

```
--ignore-size --ignore-checksum --update
```

## Rclone

Use this option if you are hosting remotes over WebDAV provided by rclone.
Read [rclone serve webdav](commands/rclone_serve_webdav/) for more details.

rclone serve supports modified times using the `X-OC-Mtime` header.


### dCache

dCache is a storage system that supports many protocols and
authentication/authorisation schemes.  For WebDAV clients, it allows
users to authenticate with username and password (BASIC), X.509,
Kerberos, and various bearer tokens, including
[Macaroons](https://www.dcache.org/manuals/workshop-2017-05-29-Umea/000-Final/anupam_macaroons_v02.pdf)
and [OpenID-Connect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenID_Connect)
access tokens.

Configure as normal using the `other` type.  Don't enter a username or
password, instead enter your Macaroon as the `bearer_token`.

The config will end up looking something like this.

```
[dcache]
type = webdav
url = https://dcache...
vendor = other
user =
pass =
bearer_token = your-macaroon
```

There is a [script](https://github.com/sara-nl/GridScripts/blob/master/get-macaroon) that
obtains a Macaroon from a dCache WebDAV endpoint, and creates an rclone config file.

Macaroons may also be obtained from the dCacheView
web-browser/JavaScript client that comes with dCache.

### OpenID-Connect

dCache also supports authenticating with OpenID-Connect access tokens.
OpenID-Connect is a protocol (based on OAuth 2.0) that allows services
to identify users who have authenticated with some central service.

Support for OpenID-Connect in rclone is currently achieved using
another software package called
[oidc-agent](https://github.com/indigo-dc/oidc-agent).  This is a
command-line tool that facilitates obtaining an access token.  Once
installed and configured, an access token is obtained by running the
`oidc-token` command.  The following example shows a (shortened)
access token obtained from the *XDC* OIDC Provider.

```
paul@celebrimbor:~$ oidc-token XDC
eyJraWQ[...]QFXDt0
paul@celebrimbor:~$
```

**Note** Before the `oidc-token` command will work, the refresh token
must be loaded into the oidc agent.  This is done with the `oidc-add`
command (e.g., `oidc-add XDC`).  This is typically done once per login
session.  Full details on this and how to register oidc-agent with
your OIDC Provider are provided in the [oidc-agent
documentation](https://indigo-dc.gitbooks.io/oidc-agent/).

The rclone `bearer_token_command` configuration option is used to
fetch the access token from oidc-agent.

Configure as a normal WebDAV endpoint, using the 'other' vendor,
leaving the username and password empty.  When prompted, choose to
edit the advanced config and enter the command to get a bearer token
(e.g., `oidc-agent XDC`).

The following example config shows a WebDAV endpoint that uses
oidc-agent to supply an access token from the *XDC* OIDC Provider.

```
[dcache]
type = webdav
url = https://dcache.example.org/
vendor = other
bearer_token_command = oidc-token XDC
```
