---
title: "Baidu NetDisk"
description: "Rclone docs for Baidu NetDisk"
versionIntroduced: "v1.6x"
---

# {{< icon "fa fa-cloud" >}} Baidu NetDisk

Paths are specified as `remote:path`

Paths may be as deep as required, e.g. `remote:directory/subdirectory`.

Baidu NetDisk API can have read permissions on all files, but only has write permissions on the application directory.
For the default `client_id` , write access is only available to `/apps/rclone`

## Configuration

The initial setup for Baidu NetDisk involves getting a token from Baidu Netdisk which you
need to do in your browser.  `rclone config` walks you through it.

Here is an example of how to make a remote called `remote`.  First run:

     rclone config

This will guide you through an interactive setup process:

```
No remotes found, make a new one?
n) New remote
s) Set configuration password
q) Quit config
n/s/q> n

Enter name for new remote.
name> xpan

Option Storage.
Type of storage to configure.
Choose a number from below, or type in your own value.
[snip]
 XX / Baidu NetDisk
    \ (xpan)
[snip]
Storage> xpan
Edit advanced config?
y) Yes
n) No (default)
y/n>n

Use web browser to automatically authenticate rclone with remote?
 * Say Y if the machine running rclone has a web browser you can use
 * Say N if running rclone on a (remote) machine without web browser access
If not sure try Y. If Y failed, try N.

y) Yes (default)
n) No
2023/12/25 20:14:15 NOTICE: If your browser doesn't open automatically go to the following link: http://127.0.0.1:53682/auth?state=ykDpCDKYdvNwy9zzL1AyYw
2023/12/25 20:14:15 NOTICE: Log in and authorize rclone for access
2023/12/25 20:14:15 NOTICE: Waiting for code...
2023/12/25 20:14:15 NOTICE: Got code
Option chunk_size.
Chunk Size
Choose a number from below, or type in your own string value.
Press Enter for the default (4Mi).
 1 / Best for user
   \ (4Mi)
chunk_size> 1

Configuration complete.
Options:
- type: xpan
- token: {"access_token":"XXX","refresh_token":"XXX","expiry":"2024-01-24T20:14:16.393725383+08:00"}
- chunk_size: 4Mi
Keep this "xpan" remote?
y) Yes this is OK (default)
e) Edit this remote
d) Delete this remote
y/e/d> y
```

See the [remote setup docs](/remote_setup/) for how to set it up on a
machine with no Internet browser available.

Note that rclone runs a webserver on your local machine to collect the
token as returned from Baidu NetDisk. This only runs from the moment it opens
your browser to the moment you get back the verification code.  This
is on `http://127.0.0.1:53682/` and this it may require you to unblock
it temporarily if you are running a host firewall.

Once configured you can then use `rclone` like this,

List directories in top level of your Baidu NetDisk

    rclone lsd remote:

List all the files in your Baidu NetDisk

    rclone ls remote:

To copy a local directory to a Baidu NetDisk directory called backup

    rclone copy /home/source remote:apps/rclone/backup

### Modification times and hashes

Baidu NetDisk does not support modification times.
Baidu NetDisk does not support any hash algorithm.

### Standard options

Here are the Standard options specific to xpan (Baidu NetDisk).

#### --xpan-client-id

OAuth Client Id.

Leave blank normally.

Properties:

- Config:      client_id
- Env Var:     RCLONE_XPAN_CLIENT_ID
- Type:        string
- Required:    false

#### --xpan-client-secret

OAuth Client Secret.

Leave blank normally.

Properties:

- Config:      client_secret
- Env Var:     RCLONE_XPAN_CLIENT_SECRET
- Type:        string
- Required:    false

### Advanced options

Here are the Advanced options specific to Baidu NetDisk (xpan).

#### --xpan-chunk-size

Chunk size to use for uploading.

Leave blank to use the defaults.

Properties:

- Config:      chunk_size
- Env Var:     RCLONE_XPAN_CHUNK_SIZE
- Type:        SizeSuffix
- Required:    true

#### --xpan-query-per-minute

Rate limit to avoid hit frequency limit.

Leave blank to use the defaults.

Properties:

- Config:      query_per_minute
- Env Var:     RCLONE_XPAN_QUERY_PER_MINUTE
- Type:        int
- Required:    true

#### --xpan-tmp-dir

Token server url.

Leave blank to use the defaults.

Properties:

- Config:      tmp_dir
- Env Var:     RCLONE_XPAN_TMP_DIR
- Type:        string
- Required:    true

#### --xpan-encoding

The encoding for the backend.

See the [encoding section in the overview](/overview/#encoding) for more info.

Properties:

- Config:      encoding
- Env Var:     RCLONE_XPAN_ENCODING
- Type:        Encoding
- Default:     Slash,LtGt,Del,Ctl,InvalidUtf8,Dot,Pipe,Asterisk,Question,DoubleQuote,SingleQuote,,Colon,RightPeriod,,LeftSpace,RightSpace,BackSlash,RightSpace,LeftCrLfHtVt,RightCrLfHtVt

{{< rem autogenerated options stop >}}
