---
title: "rclone config create"
description: "Create a new remote with name, type and options."
slug: rclone_config_create
url: /commands/rclone_config_create/
versionIntroduced: v1.39
# autogenerated - DO NOT EDIT, instead edit the source code in cmd/config/create/ and as part of making a release run "make commanddocs"
---
# rclone config create

Create a new remote with name, type and options.

## Synopsis


Create a new remote of `name` with `type` and options.  The options
should be passed in pairs of `key` `value` or as `key=value`.

For example, to make a swift remote of name myremote using auto config
you would do:

    rclone config create myremote swift env_auth true
    rclone config create myremote swift env_auth=true

So for example if you wanted to configure a Google Drive remote but
using remote authorization you would do this:

    rclone config create mydrive drive config_is_local=false

Note that if the config process would normally ask a question the
default is taken (unless `--non-interactive` is used).  Each time
that happens rclone will print or DEBUG a message saying how to
affect the value taken.

If any of the parameters passed is a password field, then rclone will
automatically obscure them if they aren't already obscured before
putting them in the config file.

**NB** If the password parameter is 22 characters or longer and
consists only of base64 characters then rclone can get confused about
whether the password is already obscured or not and put unobscured
passwords into the config file. If you want to be 100% certain that
the passwords get obscured then use the `--obscure` flag, or if you
are 100% certain you are already passing obscured passwords then use
`--no-obscure`.  You can also set obscured passwords using the
`rclone config password` command.

The flag `--non-interactive` is for use by applications that wish to
configure rclone themselves, rather than using rclone's text based
configuration questions. If this flag is set, and rclone needs to ask
the user a question, a JSON blob will be returned with the question in
it.

This will look something like (some irrelevant detail removed):

```
{
    "State": "*oauth-islocal,teamdrive,,",
    "Option": {
        "Name": "config_is_local",
        "Help": "Use web browser to automatically authenticate rclone with remote?\n * Say Y if the machine running rclone has a web browser you can use\n * Say N if running rclone on a (remote) machine without web browser access\nIf not sure try Y. If Y failed, try N.\n",
        "Default": true,
        "Examples": [
            {
                "Value": "true",
                "Help": "Yes"
            },
            {
                "Value": "false",
                "Help": "No"
            }
        ],
        "Required": false,
        "IsPassword": false,
        "Type": "bool",
        "Exclusive": true,
    },
    "Error": "",
}
```

The format of `Option` is the same as returned by `rclone config
providers`. The question should be asked to the user and returned to
rclone as the `--result` option along with the `--state` parameter.

The keys of `Option` are used as follows:

- `Name` - name of variable - show to user
- `Help` - help text. Hard wrapped at 80 chars. Any URLs should be clicky.
- `Default` - default value - return this if the user just wants the default.
- `Examples` - the user should be able to choose one of these
- `Required` - the value should be non-empty
- `IsPassword` - the value is a password and should be edited as such
- `Type` - type of value, eg `bool`, `string`, `int` and others
- `Exclusive` - if set no free-form entry allowed only the `Examples`
- Irrelevant keys `Provider`, `ShortOpt`, `Hide`, `NoPrefix`, `Advanced`

If `Error` is set then it should be shown to the user at the same
time as the question.

    rclone config update name --continue --state "*oauth-islocal,teamdrive,," --result "true"

Note that when using `--continue` all passwords should be passed in
the clear (not obscured). Any default config values should be passed
in with each invocation of `--continue`.

At the end of the non interactive process, rclone will return a result
with `State` as empty string.

If `--all` is passed then rclone will ask all the config questions,
not just the post config questions. Any parameters are used as
defaults for questions as usual.

Note that `bin/config.py` in the rclone source implements this protocol
as a readable demonstration.


```
rclone config create name type [key value]* [flags]
```

## Options

```
      --all               Ask the full set of config questions
      --continue          Continue the configuration process with an answer
  -h, --help              help for create
      --no-obscure        Force any passwords not to be obscured
      --non-interactive   Don't interact with user and return questions
      --obscure           Force any passwords to be obscured
      --result string     Result - use with --continue
      --state string      State - use with --continue
```


See the [global flags page](/flags/) for global options not listed here.

# SEE ALSO

* [rclone config](/commands/rclone_config/)	 - Enter an interactive configuration session.

