---
title: "rclone serve webdav"
description: "Serve remote:path over WebDAV."
slug: rclone_serve_webdav
url: /commands/rclone_serve_webdav/
groups: Filter
versionIntroduced: v1.39
# autogenerated - DO NOT EDIT, instead edit the source code in cmd/serve/webdav/ and as part of making a release run "make commanddocs"
---
# rclone serve webdav

Serve remote:path over WebDAV.

## Synopsis

Run a basic WebDAV server to serve a remote over HTTP via the
WebDAV protocol. This can be viewed with a WebDAV client, through a web
browser, or you can make a remote of type WebDAV to read and write it.

## WebDAV options

### --etag-hash 

This controls the ETag header.  Without this flag the ETag will be
based on the ModTime and Size of the object.

If this flag is set to "auto" then rclone will choose the first
supported hash on the backend or you can use a named hash such as
"MD5" or "SHA-1". Use the [hashsum](/commands/rclone_hashsum/) command
to see the full list.

## Access WebDAV on Windows
WebDAV shared folder can be mapped as a drive on Windows, however the default settings prevent it.
Windows will fail to connect to the server using insecure Basic authentication.
It will not even display any login dialog. Windows requires SSL / HTTPS connection to be used with Basic.
If you try to connect via Add Network Location Wizard you will get the following error:
"The folder you entered does not appear to be valid. Please choose another".
However, you still can connect if you set the following registry key on a client machine:
HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\WebClient\Parameters\BasicAuthLevel to 2.
The BasicAuthLevel can be set to the following values:
    0 - Basic authentication disabled
    1 - Basic authentication enabled for SSL connections only
    2 - Basic authentication enabled for SSL connections and for non-SSL connections
If required, increase the FileSizeLimitInBytes to a higher value.
Navigate to the Services interface, then restart the WebClient service.

## Access Office applications on WebDAV
Navigate to following registry HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Office\[14.0/15.0/16.0]\Common\Internet
Create a new DWORD BasicAuthLevel with value 2.
    0 - Basic authentication disabled
    1 - Basic authentication enabled for SSL connections only
    2 - Basic authentication enabled for SSL and for non-SSL connections

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/office/troubleshoot/powerpoint/office-opens-blank-from-sharepoint


## Server options

Use `--addr` to specify which IP address and port the server should
listen on, eg `--addr 1.2.3.4:8000` or `--addr :8080` to listen to all
IPs.  By default it only listens on localhost.  You can use port
:0 to let the OS choose an available port.

If you set `--addr` to listen on a public or LAN accessible IP address
then using Authentication is advised - see the next section for info.

You can use a unix socket by setting the url to `unix:///path/to/socket`
or just by using an absolute path name. Note that unix sockets bypass the
authentication - this is expected to be done with file system permissions.

`--addr` may be repeated to listen on multiple IPs/ports/sockets.

`--server-read-timeout` and `--server-write-timeout` can be used to
control the timeouts on the server.  Note that this is the total time
for a transfer.

`--max-header-bytes` controls the maximum number of bytes the server will
accept in the HTTP header.

`--baseurl` controls the URL prefix that rclone serves from.  By default
rclone will serve from the root.  If you used `--baseurl "/rclone"` then
rclone would serve from a URL starting with "/rclone/".  This is
useful if you wish to proxy rclone serve.  Rclone automatically
inserts leading and trailing "/" on `--baseurl`, so `--baseurl "rclone"`,
`--baseurl "/rclone"` and `--baseurl "/rclone/"` are all treated
identically.

### TLS (SSL)

By default this will serve over http.  If you want you can serve over
https.  You will need to supply the `--cert` and `--key` flags.
If you wish to do client side certificate validation then you will need to
supply `--client-ca` also.

`--cert` should be a either a PEM encoded certificate or a concatenation
of that with the CA certificate.  `--key` should be the PEM encoded
private key and `--client-ca` should be the PEM encoded client
certificate authority certificate.

--min-tls-version is minimum TLS version that is acceptable. Valid
  values are "tls1.0", "tls1.1", "tls1.2" and "tls1.3" (default
  "tls1.0").

### Template

`--template` allows a user to specify a custom markup template for HTTP
and WebDAV serve functions.  The server exports the following markup
to be used within the template to server pages:

| Parameter   | Description |
| :---------- | :---------- |
| .Name       | The full path of a file/directory. |
| .Title      | Directory listing of .Name |
| .Sort       | The current sort used.  This is changeable via ?sort= parameter |
|             | Sort Options: namedirfirst,name,size,time (default namedirfirst) |
| .Order      | The current ordering used.  This is changeable via ?order= parameter |
|             | Order Options: asc,desc (default asc) |
| .Query      | Currently unused. |
| .Breadcrumb | Allows for creating a relative navigation |
|-- .Link     | The relative to the root link of the Text. |
|-- .Text     | The Name of the directory. |
| .Entries    | Information about a specific file/directory. |
|-- .URL      | The 'url' of an entry.  |
|-- .Leaf     | Currently same as 'URL' but intended to be 'just' the name. |
|-- .IsDir    | Boolean for if an entry is a directory or not. |
|-- .Size     | Size in Bytes of the entry. |
|-- .ModTime  | The UTC timestamp of an entry. |

The server also makes the following functions available so that they can be used within the
template. These functions help extend the options for dynamic rendering of HTML. They can
be used to render HTML based on specific conditions.

| Function   | Description |
| :---------- | :---------- |
| afterEpoch  | Returns the time since the epoch for the given time. |
| contains    | Checks whether a given substring is present or not in a given string. |
| hasPrefix   | Checks whether the given string begins with the specified prefix. |
| hasSuffix   | Checks whether the given string end with the specified suffix. |

### Authentication

By default this will serve files without needing a login.

You can either use an htpasswd file which can take lots of users, or
set a single username and password with the `--user` and `--pass` flags.

If no static users are configured by either of the above methods, and client
certificates are required by the `--client-ca` flag passed to the server, the
client certificate common name will be considered as the username.

Use `--htpasswd /path/to/htpasswd` to provide an htpasswd file.  This is
in standard apache format and supports MD5, SHA1 and BCrypt for basic
authentication.  Bcrypt is recommended.

To create an htpasswd file:

    touch htpasswd
    htpasswd -B htpasswd user
    htpasswd -B htpasswd anotherUser

The password file can be updated while rclone is running.

Use `--realm` to set the authentication realm.

Use `--salt` to change the password hashing salt from the default.
## VFS - Virtual File System

This command uses the VFS layer. This adapts the cloud storage objects
that rclone uses into something which looks much more like a disk
filing system.

Cloud storage objects have lots of properties which aren't like disk
files - you can't extend them or write to the middle of them, so the
VFS layer has to deal with that. Because there is no one right way of
doing this there are various options explained below.

The VFS layer also implements a directory cache - this caches info
about files and directories (but not the data) in memory.

## VFS Directory Cache

Using the `--dir-cache-time` flag, you can control how long a
directory should be considered up to date and not refreshed from the
backend. Changes made through the VFS will appear immediately or
invalidate the cache.

    --dir-cache-time duration   Time to cache directory entries for (default 5m0s)
    --poll-interval duration    Time to wait between polling for changes. Must be smaller than dir-cache-time. Only on supported remotes. Set to 0 to disable (default 1m0s)

However, changes made directly on the cloud storage by the web
interface or a different copy of rclone will only be picked up once
the directory cache expires if the backend configured does not support
polling for changes. If the backend supports polling, changes will be
picked up within the polling interval.

You can send a `SIGHUP` signal to rclone for it to flush all
directory caches, regardless of how old they are.  Assuming only one
rclone instance is running, you can reset the cache like this:

    kill -SIGHUP $(pidof rclone)

If you configure rclone with a [remote control](/rc) then you can use
rclone rc to flush the whole directory cache:

    rclone rc vfs/forget

Or individual files or directories:

    rclone rc vfs/forget file=path/to/file dir=path/to/dir

## VFS File Buffering

The `--buffer-size` flag determines the amount of memory,
that will be used to buffer data in advance.

Each open file will try to keep the specified amount of data in memory
at all times. The buffered data is bound to one open file and won't be
shared.

This flag is a upper limit for the used memory per open file.  The
buffer will only use memory for data that is downloaded but not not
yet read. If the buffer is empty, only a small amount of memory will
be used.

The maximum memory used by rclone for buffering can be up to
`--buffer-size * open files`.

## VFS File Caching

These flags control the VFS file caching options. File caching is
necessary to make the VFS layer appear compatible with a normal file
system. It can be disabled at the cost of some compatibility.

For example you'll need to enable VFS caching if you want to read and
write simultaneously to a file.  See below for more details.

Note that the VFS cache is separate from the cache backend and you may
find that you need one or the other or both.

    --cache-dir string                     Directory rclone will use for caching.
    --vfs-cache-mode CacheMode             Cache mode off|minimal|writes|full (default off)
    --vfs-cache-max-age duration           Max time since last access of objects in the cache (default 1h0m0s)
    --vfs-cache-max-size SizeSuffix        Max total size of objects in the cache (default off)
    --vfs-cache-min-free-space SizeSuffix  Target minimum free space on the disk containing the cache (default off)
    --vfs-cache-poll-interval duration     Interval to poll the cache for stale objects (default 1m0s)
    --vfs-write-back duration              Time to writeback files after last use when using cache (default 5s)

If run with `-vv` rclone will print the location of the file cache.  The
files are stored in the user cache file area which is OS dependent but
can be controlled with `--cache-dir` or setting the appropriate
environment variable.

The cache has 4 different modes selected by `--vfs-cache-mode`.
The higher the cache mode the more compatible rclone becomes at the
cost of using disk space.

Note that files are written back to the remote only when they are
closed and if they haven't been accessed for `--vfs-write-back`
seconds. If rclone is quit or dies with files that haven't been
uploaded, these will be uploaded next time rclone is run with the same
flags.

If using `--vfs-cache-max-size` or `--vfs-cache-min-free-size` note
that the cache may exceed these quotas for two reasons. Firstly
because it is only checked every `--vfs-cache-poll-interval`. Secondly
because open files cannot be evicted from the cache. When
`--vfs-cache-max-size` or `--vfs-cache-min-free-size` is exceeded,
rclone will attempt to evict the least accessed files from the cache
first. rclone will start with files that haven't been accessed for the
longest. This cache flushing strategy is efficient and more relevant
files are likely to remain cached.

The `--vfs-cache-max-age` will evict files from the cache
after the set time since last access has passed. The default value of
1 hour will start evicting files from cache that haven't been accessed
for 1 hour. When a cached file is accessed the 1 hour timer is reset to 0
and will wait for 1 more hour before evicting. Specify the time with
standard notation, s, m, h, d, w .

You **should not** run two copies of rclone using the same VFS cache
with the same or overlapping remotes if using `--vfs-cache-mode > off`.
This can potentially cause data corruption if you do. You can work
around this by giving each rclone its own cache hierarchy with
`--cache-dir`. You don't need to worry about this if the remotes in
use don't overlap.

### --vfs-cache-mode off

In this mode (the default) the cache will read directly from the remote and write
directly to the remote without caching anything on disk.

This will mean some operations are not possible

  * Files can't be opened for both read AND write
  * Files opened for write can't be seeked
  * Existing files opened for write must have O_TRUNC set
  * Files open for read with O_TRUNC will be opened write only
  * Files open for write only will behave as if O_TRUNC was supplied
  * Open modes O_APPEND, O_TRUNC are ignored
  * If an upload fails it can't be retried

### --vfs-cache-mode minimal

This is very similar to "off" except that files opened for read AND
write will be buffered to disk.  This means that files opened for
write will be a lot more compatible, but uses the minimal disk space.

These operations are not possible

  * Files opened for write only can't be seeked
  * Existing files opened for write must have O_TRUNC set
  * Files opened for write only will ignore O_APPEND, O_TRUNC
  * If an upload fails it can't be retried

### --vfs-cache-mode writes

In this mode files opened for read only are still read directly from
the remote, write only and read/write files are buffered to disk
first.

This mode should support all normal file system operations.

If an upload fails it will be retried at exponentially increasing
intervals up to 1 minute.

### --vfs-cache-mode full

In this mode all reads and writes are buffered to and from disk. When
data is read from the remote this is buffered to disk as well.

In this mode the files in the cache will be sparse files and rclone
will keep track of which bits of the files it has downloaded.

So if an application only reads the starts of each file, then rclone
will only buffer the start of the file. These files will appear to be
their full size in the cache, but they will be sparse files with only
the data that has been downloaded present in them.

This mode should support all normal file system operations and is
otherwise identical to `--vfs-cache-mode` writes.

When reading a file rclone will read `--buffer-size` plus
`--vfs-read-ahead` bytes ahead.  The `--buffer-size` is buffered in memory
whereas the `--vfs-read-ahead` is buffered on disk.

When using this mode it is recommended that `--buffer-size` is not set
too large and `--vfs-read-ahead` is set large if required.

**IMPORTANT** not all file systems support sparse files. In particular
FAT/exFAT do not. Rclone will perform very badly if the cache
directory is on a filesystem which doesn't support sparse files and it
will log an ERROR message if one is detected.

### Fingerprinting

Various parts of the VFS use fingerprinting to see if a local file
copy has changed relative to a remote file. Fingerprints are made
from:

- size
- modification time
- hash

where available on an object.

On some backends some of these attributes are slow to read (they take
an extra API call per object, or extra work per object).

For example `hash` is slow with the `local` and `sftp` backends as
they have to read the entire file and hash it, and `modtime` is slow
with the `s3`, `swift`, `ftp` and `qinqstor` backends because they
need to do an extra API call to fetch it.

If you use the `--vfs-fast-fingerprint` flag then rclone will not
include the slow operations in the fingerprint. This makes the
fingerprinting less accurate but much faster and will improve the
opening time of cached files.

If you are running a vfs cache over `local`, `s3` or `swift` backends
then using this flag is recommended.

Note that if you change the value of this flag, the fingerprints of
the files in the cache may be invalidated and the files will need to
be downloaded again.

## VFS Chunked Reading

When rclone reads files from a remote it reads them in chunks. This
means that rather than requesting the whole file rclone reads the
chunk specified.  This can reduce the used download quota for some
remotes by requesting only chunks from the remote that are actually
read, at the cost of an increased number of requests.

These flags control the chunking:

    --vfs-read-chunk-size SizeSuffix        Read the source objects in chunks (default 128M)
    --vfs-read-chunk-size-limit SizeSuffix  Max chunk doubling size (default off)

Rclone will start reading a chunk of size `--vfs-read-chunk-size`,
and then double the size for each read. When `--vfs-read-chunk-size-limit` is
specified, and greater than `--vfs-read-chunk-size`, the chunk size for each
open file will get doubled only until the specified value is reached. If the
value is "off", which is the default, the limit is disabled and the chunk size
will grow indefinitely.

With `--vfs-read-chunk-size 100M` and `--vfs-read-chunk-size-limit 0`
the following parts will be downloaded: 0-100M, 100M-200M, 200M-300M, 300M-400M and so on.
When `--vfs-read-chunk-size-limit 500M` is specified, the result would be
0-100M, 100M-300M, 300M-700M, 700M-1200M, 1200M-1700M and so on.

Setting `--vfs-read-chunk-size` to `0` or "off" disables chunked reading.

## VFS Performance

These flags may be used to enable/disable features of the VFS for
performance or other reasons. See also the [chunked reading](#vfs-chunked-reading)
feature.

In particular S3 and Swift benefit hugely from the `--no-modtime` flag
(or use `--use-server-modtime` for a slightly different effect) as each
read of the modification time takes a transaction.

    --no-checksum     Don't compare checksums on up/download.
    --no-modtime      Don't read/write the modification time (can speed things up).
    --no-seek         Don't allow seeking in files.
    --read-only       Only allow read-only access.

Sometimes rclone is delivered reads or writes out of order. Rather
than seeking rclone will wait a short time for the in sequence read or
write to come in. These flags only come into effect when not using an
on disk cache file.

    --vfs-read-wait duration   Time to wait for in-sequence read before seeking (default 20ms)
    --vfs-write-wait duration  Time to wait for in-sequence write before giving error (default 1s)

When using VFS write caching (`--vfs-cache-mode` with value writes or full),
the global flag `--transfers` can be set to adjust the number of parallel uploads of
modified files from the cache (the related global flag `--checkers` has no effect on the VFS).

    --transfers int  Number of file transfers to run in parallel (default 4)

## VFS Case Sensitivity

Linux file systems are case-sensitive: two files can differ only
by case, and the exact case must be used when opening a file.

File systems in modern Windows are case-insensitive but case-preserving:
although existing files can be opened using any case, the exact case used
to create the file is preserved and available for programs to query.
It is not allowed for two files in the same directory to differ only by case.

Usually file systems on macOS are case-insensitive. It is possible to make macOS
file systems case-sensitive but that is not the default.

The `--vfs-case-insensitive` VFS flag controls how rclone handles these
two cases. If its value is "false", rclone passes file names to the remote
as-is. If the flag is "true" (or appears without a value on the
command line), rclone may perform a "fixup" as explained below.

The user may specify a file name to open/delete/rename/etc with a case
different than what is stored on the remote. If an argument refers
to an existing file with exactly the same name, then the case of the existing
file on the disk will be used. However, if a file name with exactly the same
name is not found but a name differing only by case exists, rclone will
transparently fixup the name. This fixup happens only when an existing file
is requested. Case sensitivity of file names created anew by rclone is
controlled by the underlying remote.

Note that case sensitivity of the operating system running rclone (the target)
may differ from case sensitivity of a file system presented by rclone (the source).
The flag controls whether "fixup" is performed to satisfy the target.

If the flag is not provided on the command line, then its default value depends
on the operating system where rclone runs: "true" on Windows and macOS, "false"
otherwise. If the flag is provided without a value, then it is "true".

## VFS Disk Options

This flag allows you to manually set the statistics about the filing system.
It can be useful when those statistics cannot be read correctly automatically.

    --vfs-disk-space-total-size    Manually set the total disk space size (example: 256G, default: -1)

## Alternate report of used bytes

Some backends, most notably S3, do not report the amount of bytes used.
If you need this information to be available when running `df` on the
filesystem, then pass the flag `--vfs-used-is-size` to rclone.
With this flag set, instead of relying on the backend to report this
information, rclone will scan the whole remote similar to `rclone size`
and compute the total used space itself.

_WARNING._ Contrary to `rclone size`, this flag ignores filters so that the
result is accurate. However, this is very inefficient and may cost lots of API
calls resulting in extra charges. Use it as a last resort and only with caching.

## Auth Proxy

If you supply the parameter `--auth-proxy /path/to/program` then
rclone will use that program to generate backends on the fly which
then are used to authenticate incoming requests.  This uses a simple
JSON based protocol with input on STDIN and output on STDOUT.

**PLEASE NOTE:** `--auth-proxy` and `--authorized-keys` cannot be used
together, if `--auth-proxy` is set the authorized keys option will be
ignored.

There is an example program
[bin/test_proxy.py](https://github.com/rclone/rclone/blob/master/test_proxy.py)
in the rclone source code.

The program's job is to take a `user` and `pass` on the input and turn
those into the config for a backend on STDOUT in JSON format.  This
config will have any default parameters for the backend added, but it
won't use configuration from environment variables or command line
options - it is the job of the proxy program to make a complete
config.

This config generated must have this extra parameter
- `_root` - root to use for the backend

And it may have this parameter
- `_obscure` - comma separated strings for parameters to obscure

If password authentication was used by the client, input to the proxy
process (on STDIN) would look similar to this:

```
{
	"user": "me",
	"pass": "mypassword"
}
```

If public-key authentication was used by the client, input to the
proxy process (on STDIN) would look similar to this:

```
{
	"user": "me",
	"public_key": "AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAABAQDuwESFdAe14hVS6omeyX7edc...JQdf"
}
```

And as an example return this on STDOUT

```
{
	"type": "sftp",
	"_root": "",
	"_obscure": "pass",
	"user": "me",
	"pass": "mypassword",
	"host": "sftp.example.com"
}
```

This would mean that an SFTP backend would be created on the fly for
the `user` and `pass`/`public_key` returned in the output to the host given.  Note
that since `_obscure` is set to `pass`, rclone will obscure the `pass`
parameter before creating the backend (which is required for sftp
backends).

The program can manipulate the supplied `user` in any way, for example
to make proxy to many different sftp backends, you could make the
`user` be `user@example.com` and then set the `host` to `example.com`
in the output and the user to `user`. For security you'd probably want
to restrict the `host` to a limited list.

Note that an internal cache is keyed on `user` so only use that for
configuration, don't use `pass` or `public_key`.  This also means that if a user's
password or public-key is changed the cache will need to expire (which takes 5 mins)
before it takes effect.

This can be used to build general purpose proxies to any kind of
backend that rclone supports.  


```
rclone serve webdav remote:path [flags]
```

## Options

```
      --addr stringArray                       IPaddress:Port or :Port to bind server to (default [127.0.0.1:8080])
      --allow-origin string                    Origin which cross-domain request (CORS) can be executed from
      --auth-proxy string                      A program to use to create the backend from the auth
      --baseurl string                         Prefix for URLs - leave blank for root
      --cert string                            TLS PEM key (concatenation of certificate and CA certificate)
      --client-ca string                       Client certificate authority to verify clients with
      --dir-cache-time Duration                Time to cache directory entries for (default 5m0s)
      --dir-perms FileMode                     Directory permissions (default 0777)
      --disable-dir-list                       Disable HTML directory list on GET request for a directory
      --etag-hash string                       Which hash to use for the ETag, or auto or blank for off
      --file-perms FileMode                    File permissions (default 0666)
      --gid uint32                             Override the gid field set by the filesystem (not supported on Windows) (default 1000)
  -h, --help                                   help for webdav
      --htpasswd string                        A htpasswd file - if not provided no authentication is done
      --key string                             TLS PEM Private key
      --max-header-bytes int                   Maximum size of request header (default 4096)
      --min-tls-version string                 Minimum TLS version that is acceptable (default "tls1.0")
      --no-checksum                            Don't compare checksums on up/download
      --no-modtime                             Don't read/write the modification time (can speed things up)
      --no-seek                                Don't allow seeking in files
      --pass string                            Password for authentication
      --poll-interval Duration                 Time to wait between polling for changes, must be smaller than dir-cache-time and only on supported remotes (set 0 to disable) (default 1m0s)
      --read-only                              Only allow read-only access
      --realm string                           Realm for authentication
      --salt string                            Password hashing salt (default "dlPL2MqE")
      --server-read-timeout Duration           Timeout for server reading data (default 1h0m0s)
      --server-write-timeout Duration          Timeout for server writing data (default 1h0m0s)
      --template string                        User-specified template
      --uid uint32                             Override the uid field set by the filesystem (not supported on Windows) (default 1000)
      --umask int                              Override the permission bits set by the filesystem (not supported on Windows) (default 2)
      --user string                            User name for authentication
      --vfs-cache-max-age Duration             Max time since last access of objects in the cache (default 1h0m0s)
      --vfs-cache-max-size SizeSuffix          Max total size of objects in the cache (default off)
      --vfs-cache-min-free-space SizeSuffix    Target minimum free space on the disk containing the cache (default off)
      --vfs-cache-mode CacheMode               Cache mode off|minimal|writes|full (default off)
      --vfs-cache-poll-interval Duration       Interval to poll the cache for stale objects (default 1m0s)
      --vfs-case-insensitive                   If a file name not found, find a case insensitive match
      --vfs-disk-space-total-size SizeSuffix   Specify the total space of disk (default off)
      --vfs-fast-fingerprint                   Use fast (less accurate) fingerprints for change detection
      --vfs-read-ahead SizeSuffix              Extra read ahead over --buffer-size when using cache-mode full
      --vfs-read-chunk-size SizeSuffix         Read the source objects in chunks (default 128Mi)
      --vfs-read-chunk-size-limit SizeSuffix   If greater than --vfs-read-chunk-size, double the chunk size after each chunk read, until the limit is reached ('off' is unlimited) (default off)
      --vfs-read-wait Duration                 Time to wait for in-sequence read before seeking (default 20ms)
      --vfs-refresh                            Refreshes the directory cache recursively on start
      --vfs-used-is-size rclone size           Use the rclone size algorithm for Used size
      --vfs-write-back Duration                Time to writeback files after last use when using cache (default 5s)
      --vfs-write-wait Duration                Time to wait for in-sequence write before giving error (default 1s)
```


## Filter Options

Flags for filtering directory listings.

```
      --delete-excluded                     Delete files on dest excluded from sync
      --exclude stringArray                 Exclude files matching pattern
      --exclude-from stringArray            Read file exclude patterns from file (use - to read from stdin)
      --exclude-if-present stringArray      Exclude directories if filename is present
      --files-from stringArray              Read list of source-file names from file (use - to read from stdin)
      --files-from-raw stringArray          Read list of source-file names from file without any processing of lines (use - to read from stdin)
  -f, --filter stringArray                  Add a file filtering rule
      --filter-from stringArray             Read file filtering patterns from a file (use - to read from stdin)
      --ignore-case                         Ignore case in filters (case insensitive)
      --include stringArray                 Include files matching pattern
      --include-from stringArray            Read file include patterns from file (use - to read from stdin)
      --max-age Duration                    Only transfer files younger than this in s or suffix ms|s|m|h|d|w|M|y (default off)
      --max-depth int                       If set limits the recursion depth to this (default -1)
      --max-size SizeSuffix                 Only transfer files smaller than this in KiB or suffix B|K|M|G|T|P (default off)
      --metadata-exclude stringArray        Exclude metadatas matching pattern
      --metadata-exclude-from stringArray   Read metadata exclude patterns from file (use - to read from stdin)
      --metadata-filter stringArray         Add a metadata filtering rule
      --metadata-filter-from stringArray    Read metadata filtering patterns from a file (use - to read from stdin)
      --metadata-include stringArray        Include metadatas matching pattern
      --metadata-include-from stringArray   Read metadata include patterns from file (use - to read from stdin)
      --min-age Duration                    Only transfer files older than this in s or suffix ms|s|m|h|d|w|M|y (default off)
      --min-size SizeSuffix                 Only transfer files bigger than this in KiB or suffix B|K|M|G|T|P (default off)
```

See the [global flags page](/flags/) for global options not listed here.

# SEE ALSO

* [rclone serve](/commands/rclone_serve/)	 - Serve a remote over a protocol.

